.TH DALI2DALI 1 2011/01/04
.SH NAME
dali2dali \- DataLink to DataLink

Copy selected data from one DataLink server to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
dali2dali [options] srchost desthost

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdali2dali\fP connects to one \fIDataLink\fR server, requests data
streams and forwards the received packets to another \fIDataLink\fR
server.

This program is designed to run continuously.  Because the DataLink
protocol is stateful this program should be tolerant of connection
breaks and subsequent re-connections.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Print program version and exit.

.IP "-h         "
Print program usage and exit.

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-x \fIstatefile\fR[:\fIinterval\fR]"
During client shutdown the last received packet ID and time stamp
(start times) for each data stream will be saved in this file.  If
this file exists upon startup the information will be used to resume
the data streams from the point at which they were stopped.  In this
way the client can be stopped and started without data loss, assuming
the data are still available on the server.  If \fIinterval\fR is
specified the state will be saved every \fIinterval\fR packets that
are received.  Otherwise the state will be saved only on normal
program termination.

.IP "-m \fImatch\fR"
Specify a matching expression to send to the server.  This regular
expression is used to either limit the stream packets collected by
matching against the stream ID, nominally in the
form 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN/TYPE'.  If the expression begins with an '@'
character it is assumed to be a file containing a list of expressions
for matching.

.IP "-r \fIreject\fR"
Specify a rejecting expression to send to the server.  This regular
expression is used to limit the stream packets collected and is
logically opposite of the matching expression.  This expression is
matched against the stream ID, nominally in the
form 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN/TYPE'.  If the expression begins with an '@'
character it is assumed to be a file containing a list of expressions
for rejecting.

.IP "\fIsrchost\fR"
Specifies the address of the source DataLink server in host:port format.
Either the host, port or both can be omitted.  If host is omitted then
localhost is assumed, i.e.  ':16000' implies 'localhost:16000'.  If
the port is omitted then 16000 is assumed, i.e.  'localhost'
implies 'localhost:16000'.  If only ':' is specified 'localhost:16000'
is assumed.

.IP "\fIdesthost\fR"
Specifies the address of the destination DataLink server in host:port
format (seed \fIsrchost\fP).  The destination can be the same as the
source with the effect, which has the potential of creating a runaway
spiral of data duplication.

.SH "CAVEATS"

After receiving a data packet from the source server the program will
forward the packet to the destination server.  If the connection to
the destination server is broken the program will continuously try to
re-connect, if the program is terminated before the record is
forwarded the packet will be lost because the statefile will be
written as if the record were sucessfully forwarded.  The potential,
while quite small, can be minimized by running dali2dali on the same
host as the destination server.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
EarthScope Data Services
.fi
